# processing-milk-scanner
This was written as part of the FabAcademy course I was taking. More info can be found at http://fabacademy.org/archives/2014/students/harris.adam/week5.html  Notes MilkScanner app V0.1 3D scanner  Date: 3-2-2014  Author: Adam Harris  email: adam.projectbloc@gmail.com  Website: http://www.sheekgeek.org and  http://fabacademy.org/archives/2014/students/harris.adam/index.html  License Do what you want, give me some credit as well (unless it breaks something, in which case that's all on you and I've never seen this code before in my life.)  Dependencies This code uses a few libraries:  OpenCV for Processing &lt;-- Could have gotten away with built-in processing video, maybe I'll make a version of that too.  ControlP5  gifAnimation  All of these are available from the processing 2.1.1  "Sketch-->AddLibrary" menu  Usage  Hang a camera over top a vessel containing an object you want to scan.  if the object is light in color, choose a dark liquid, otherwise choose a white liquid  Put the object in the vessel (secure it to the bottom with clay or something so it won't float  pour a small amount of the liquid in the vessel slowly to cover the bottom of the vessel  start this app and adjust the settings in the control window.  -- Brightness is processed first  -- Blur can help kill some of the noise in the image. use sparingly though  -- Threshold is similar to Brightness. Take your pick between them really.  -- INVERT button may be needed if you use a dark liquid (You want the outline of your object to be WHITE and the background BLACK) 6. YOU MUST HAVE THE MAIN WINDOW IN FOCUS, Press the spacebar to add a frame to the GIF  Pour a bit more liquid in and GOTO #7 until liquid completely covers the object (let the camera decide when the object is covered, not your eyeballs)  When finished, press 's' on the keyboard to export your final GIF.  Copy and rename this GIF from the processing script folder. If you don't rename it, IT WILL BE OVERWRITTEN IF THE PROGRAM RUNS AGAIN  Edit and clean up GIF in GIMP,  use fab modules to export GIF to PNG heightmap or STL  3D print the STL file  rinse, repeat  be happy that you just built a 3D scanner for the cost of a webcam and bottle of milk or soda (or india ink or coffee, etc.) (I couldn't end it on #13)  Future TODO --reducing the number of libraries by using processing's built-in video filters  --make it possible to only use a region of interest  --export directly as STL or PNG  --3D print directly
